Remove /root/.my.cnf to reset the password or if the module does not work!!!

Introduction/Notes
==================

This module manages your mysql resources. 

Requirements
------------

If you are wanting munin integration, you will need the munin module installed.

If you are wanting shorewall integration, you will need the shorewall module
installed.

If you are wanting nagios integration, you will need the nagios module
installed, specifically it must have nagios::plugin::deploy functionality. 

You will need to have activated storedconfigs on the puppetmaster.

Mysql Server
============

On a node where you wish to have a mysql server installed, you should first
define the mysql root password and then include mysql::server, for example:

node foo {
  $mysql_rootpw = "b00changem3"
  include mysql::server
}

This will manage the necessary directories and configuration files, it will
install the mysql client program and set the root password as you designated,
along with setting a /root/.my.cnf for various module operations. It will also
make sure the mysql service is running, and setup all the databases, users and
grant tables.

The my.cnf file will installed from one of many possible places, see
manifests/server/base.pp for possible locations for managing this.

Backups
-------

If you wish to automatically setup a cronjob to backup your databases, you can
set the "$mysql_backup_cron = true" variable. This will setup a cronjob to do a
mysqldump at 1am of all the databases on the system and put them in
/var/backups/mysql by default. You can override this location by specifying
$mysql_backup_dir.

Optimizing tables
-----------------

If you wish mysql to periodically optimize tables, set the
"$mysql_optimize_cron = true" variable before you include mysql::server.

Munin
-----

If you wish to use munin you need to set the variables: $munin_mysql_password
and "$use_munin = true", before you include mysql::server. This will be used to
setup a mysql user for munin, with reduced privileges to allow for the various
munin graphs to be setup and queried. The munin graphs are: mysql_bytes,
mysql_queries, mysql_slowqueries and mysql_threads. NOTE: The
$munin_mysql_password is not necessary on Debian systems as it will handled with
Debian's /etc/mysql/debian.cnf.

Nagios
------

If you wish nagios to check mysql, you should set the variable "$use_nagios =
true" along with the "$nagios_check_mysql = true" variable. You will also need
to set a password for the nagios mysql user which will be automatically created
for you with reduced privileges used only for nagios checks. You can do that by
setting the variable: $nagios_mysql_password = "f00changem3". These should be
set before you include mysql::server.

Unless you specify otherwise, the default nagios check which will be performed
is the basic 'check_mysql' nagios plugin which simply tests connectivity to a
MySQL server. You can specify more advanced mysql health checks as follows:

mysql::server::nagios::check_health { [ 'connection-time', 'uptime', 'threads-connected', 
				        'slave-lag', 'slave-io-running', 'slave-sql-running' ]:  }

See the files/nagios/check_mysql_health script for the various mysql health
checks that you can perform. Additionally, see the define "check_health" in
manifests/server/nagios.pp for various options that you can pass to check_health. 

Firewall
--------

If you wish to have firewall rules setup automatically for you, using shorewall,
you will need to set: $use_shorewall = true. See the shorewall module for more
information about how this works.


Client
======

On a node where you wish to have the mysql client managed, you can 'include
mysql::client' in the node definition. This will install the appropriate
package.

You can also 'include mysql::client::ruby' if you want the 'libmysql-ruby'
libraries installed.
